



English the Victorian era:
Politics:


During the long-ruling of Queen Victoria from 1837 to early 1901 is all about the vast changes and development that were made in both the economic and the political structure. The first democracy parties were developed in the British empire.
two of the strongest parties under this reign was the Whigs and the Tories, both Conservatives.
The British empire was still a monarchy ruled by Queen Victoria. But we can call that the parties that were represented were in some sort of a puppet party still able to make changes but overseen by the queen itself the ones that got the most votes got into the house of the lords. (called different but it's like the today's Parliament).
Here are some of the important things during the Victorian era.

A change without a REVOLUTION.

there had long been a degree of social mobility. It was enough, at least, for Britain,
Compared to the neighboring countries such as France which got hit hard by the popular era of the Literary realism where a lot of authors started to write in a dark and realistic perspective describing what's wrong in this society. This alternated the perspective for a lot of people especially when a big portion of the people learned to write and read. The public started to demand change but was often overrun by the overseers (the high placed ones in the society) which often led to a revolutionary movement.
Even if the British empire was highly conservative and did not want to change the structure of the social works and big parts of the British people didn't believe in revolutionary violence still managed to make a change by just make their voice heard and this was all it took for a change.

Queen Victoria made Acts from 1867 and 1884 to increase the number of adult men entitled to vote from about 16% to 66%, although there were as yet no votes for women. The other things are the political system and how it works and the worker's reform which would make the working aspect better and also the social security fundamentals were changed still poor but in progress.

The house of lords and the house of common.
The Parliament was a Bicameral legislature which means there are two parts to pass a bill or other laws which consisted of The House of Lords and The House of Commons. Both houses would meet separately, and both have voted for the bill as law and the majority of votes would decide if it's a pass or a nay just like America's system where they have the Congress and the House of Representatives.
But, for a bill to pass it was necessary that both the houses accent to it and the bigger bills were accounted for the queen or by the Lord Chancellor. Those who were not elected to sit in the parliament had to supervise instead with the chancellor.



The Whigs
A party that had been around since early 1680 they began as a political faction and in the mid-years of 19th century sprung to be a political party.
The whigs origin lays in constitutional monarchism and opposition to absolute monarchy another word for that is liberals (Conservatives).  The Whigs were originally the strongest political faction. They got control over the government in 1715 and it remained like so until the new king George 3rd in 1760 letting their old rivals (The Tories), back in. The Whigs also played a huge role in the Glorious Revolution that took place in 1688 and being enemies of Stuart kings and pretenders (the Roman Catholic) 19th centuries Whigs.

By 1815 they were still far from being a fully fledged party in today's standard. they still had no definitive agenda or policy and was not united together. at that time they stood for reducing crown patronage. The Whigs began to become a political party after they restored their relationship with the Catholics by supporting moral reforms and come over an agreement over the incident 1688. The house of lords was introduced, and this changed how things worked around. People in the higher or middle classes could now vote for a party to be in power in the house of lords this changed how they had to handle their party and take more social strategic moves.

what they stood for “representative government, individual liberty, social and economic progress, modernization, public education, a vibrant legislative branch, and ongoing cooperation between the private and public sectors”. The Whigs still exist today and are called the modern Whig. The modern Whig and are still a liberal party.

The Tories

or in singular terms caller Tory. The name origin was not made by them it was what they were being called from others political oppositions but later on decided to keep the name for them self. The first of the tories came around in 1678 and started to spread all around Great Britain. They also started off just like the Whigs with being a political faction.
The Tories didn't stick around so long because of The Whigs taking over the government they after that became a small community but still held on to being recognized years after. The Tories appeared again in 1760.

Tories were associated with repression of popular discontent but after 1820 they underwent a fundamental transformation under the influence of Robert Peel, who was an industrialist. The 1834 Tamworth Manifesto Outlined a new conservative philosophy of reforming ills while conserving the good. "The subsequent Peel administrations have been labeled Conservative rather than Tory, but the older term remains in use". After The Conservative Party split up in 1846 on the issue of free trade, the protectionist wing of the party rejected the term "Conservative". They preferred to be known as Protectionists or even to revive the older term Tory as an official name.

"However, by 1859 the Peelites (Peel's Conservative supporters) joined the Whigs and Radicals to form the Liberal Party. The remaining Tories, centered under the leadership of the Earl of Derby (a former Whig) and Disraeli (once a Radical candidate for Parliament), adopted the "Conservative" label as the official name of their party".




https://www.britannica.com/topic/Whig-Party-England
http://www.victorian-era.org/victorian-era-politics1.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victorian_era
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U0LhurGWOc
